In this video, we're going to decide whether we should be making use of JSON Web tokens or cookies.
Now, remember, this is not an either or decision.
Cookies and JSON web tokens are two very different things.
The implication here, usually when we say that we're using cookie based authentication, the implication
is that we have a cookie that is going to store some kind of encoded token inside of it, and that's
going to be encrypted in some way that the user cannot access the information inside there.
So again, these are two different things, but usually when we refer to cookie based authentication,
we're talking about using a very particular style of oath and storing some information inside that cookie.
At any rate, let's just take a look at a couple of diagrams and get a better idea of the requirements
of our application and which of these two approaches is going to satisfy those requirements.
Okay.
I've taken a series of diagrams that we've looked at in the past, and I've added it in a couple of
notes to each of them.
The notes I've added in are pointing out some particular aspect of our application and what that particular
aspect is kind of implying or requiring of our authentication mechanism.
So in this diagram right here, remember, we imagine that we had our order service and we were making
a request to say, purchase a ticket.
And so inside of our ticket purchase logic, logic, we probably needed to figure out whether or not
that user is logged in and we can use a JSON web token or some cookie based approach for that, no problem.
And then after that, we probably needed to decide whether or not this user can purchase a ticket.
So maybe whether or not they have billing set up in their account, whether or not they have a credit
card or something similar to that.
So that's step right there.
That implication that we need to somehow figure out whether or not this user or details about this user
really implies that our authentication mechanism needs to tell us information about the person who was
just authenticated.
In other words, we can't just have some mechanism that says, yes, this user is authenticated or No,
they are not.
Instead, this authentication mechanism has to tell us, Yes, this person is authenticated and here
is some information about them.
Here's their user ID, here's their email, here's whether or not they have a credit card tied to their
account.
So we need to have some option or ability to store information inside of our off mechanism.
That is requirement number one.
Here's requirement number two.
So this is similar to the diagram we were just looking at, but I customized a couple of things inside
of it to just imagine a new scenario.
Let's imagine that our application has the ability to create free coupons.
So these are coupon codes that allow people to get free tickets.
Of course, we probably do not want any arbitrary user to be able to access this root handler and start
creating free tickets.
That would be catastrophic, really bad.
So that would probably be something that we would want to limit to maybe administration users.
So only admins can make a request that will create a free coupon code.
So we can imagine that an admin user would make a request to create this coupon code.
It would go to who knows what service.
Maybe the order service doesn't really matter.
Inside there we would access some free coupon creation logic and the first thing we would do is check
to see if that person is logged in.
If they are immediately after that, we would definitely need to check whether or not this person is
authorized to create free coupons.
So we need to decide whether or not this is an admin user.
So this little step right here, even though our application is not going to do this, we could very
easily imagine scenarios where we would need to have something similar to this.
That step right there is really implying that our auth mechanism has to include some amount of authorization
information.
We need to know more information about this user.
Are they user, are they an admin?
What's their role?
Stuff like that.
All right, onto the next diagram.
Now, this diagram right here was in an optional video.
This was tied to the video where we discussed possible ways of solving that issue, where we could ban
a user, but they would still have access to our application in this option number two approach that
we're using inside of our app.
So one way that we discussed to solve this issue was to have a auth mechanism that would expire after
some set of time.
So this is really implying that whatever mechanism we are going to use, it has to have a built in way
and a super secure way.
In other words, we would not want a user to be able to tamper with this in some way of expiring our
auth mechanism after a set period of time, a very precise period of time.
So maybe 15 minutes, 20 minutes, ten days, whatever else.
So that's an extra requirement of our mechanism.
All right.
Just one last one right here.
So last thing I want you to recall is that we are going to have a browser application, maybe a mobile
app, whatever else it is.
And this is going to eventually be sending requests to our different services.
One of the big benefits of using a microservices approach is that each of our different services can
be built using a different back end language.
So we might have the service written with Node and Express orders, might be with Ruby on Rails and
payments might be with Java Spring.
So this is really implying that whatever auth mechanism we decide to use, it has to be easily understood
by many different languages because with this option number two fundamental, fundamental approach that
you and I are using, we are saying that each of these services are in charge of deciding whether or
not to authenticate a given incoming request.
So whatever mechanism we decide to use here, JSON, Web token or something else, it has to be easily
implementable with Express or Ruby or Java.
Also, given the fact that each of these different services are going to need to somehow authenticate
a user, we probably do not want to force any storage requirements on these services as well.
In other words, if we are deciding on some other mechanism that is going to require us to have some
backend server or a backend database just to store information to support that auth mechanism, that
would probably be bad.
We don't want to force, say, our order service to have some kind of specialized database to store
information just to support our auth mechanism.
That would be probably not that great.
All right.
So let's summarize all this stuff up.
These are the requirements for our auth mechanism.
First off, we have to store information about a user, so maybe their user ID, their email or something
like that within the auth mechanism itself.
That is closely coupled with this last item down here.
So if we are storing information about that user, it has to be inside the auth mechanism and it must
not require us to have some kind of backing data store.
Next up, we have to be able to store some authorization info inside there as well.
So whether or not this person is an admin, a normal user or something else, we have to have a built
in and tamper resistant way.
So a user should not be able to mudie around with this or kind of fool us to expire or invalidate that
auth mechanism automatically without us having to reach out to a user's browser or something like that,
because we can't do that and try to invalidate their auth mechanism.
And then finally, whatever we choose has to be easily understood between these different languages.
So suffice it to say, all these requirements right here are very heavily steering us towards a JSON
web token approach.
The reason for this, it satisfies well, obviously, all these different issues right here, 100%,
Jason, Web tokens.
We can store any arbitrary information we want about a user.
There are even built in properties of JSON web tokens that lend to handling authorization very well.
Jason Webb tokens can encode expiration information.
They might be saying, Hey, Stephen, cookies can do that as well.
We can have cookies expire after a set period of time.
Well, not quite.
You see, we can set some expiration on a cookie, but that is us kind of politely asking a browser
to expire.
The cookie.
Cookie expiration is handled by the browser, so the browser is going to receive a cookie.
It's going to see that we ask the browser to expire that after, say, 20 days or something like that,
and after 20 days the browser will expire that cookie for us.
But a user could very easily copy that cookie information and just ignore the expiration date on there
and continue using that cookie in the auth mechanism or auth information side there at some point in
time in the future, even beyond that expiration date.
A JSON web token, however, is going to encode the expiration time in itself.
And as soon as the JSON web token expires, then that's it.
It will not be valid anymore.
Jason Webb tokens have fantastic support between different languages.
So every language out there, you're going to find an official implementation for handling JSON Web
tokens.
If we use solely cookie based authentication where we kind of create some kind of custom token and store
it inside of a cookie, it turns out that a lot of these different custom cookie implementations will
vary significantly between different languages.
And if you're super curious, I can even show you instances of that with some popular cookie libraries
used in the Node.js world.
It would be kind of hard to create a cookie that is signed securely, so it has some actual kind of
secure or encryption around it using Node.js or Express and then reuse that over in the Ruby on Rails
world.
That would be kind of challenging.
And then finally, Jason Webb tokens do not strictly require us to have some kind of backing data store
to identify this user.
Now as opposed to cookies.
You will see a lot of people who use cookies.
They're going to try to store, just say a session ID inside the cookie.
That refers to some session that is stored on a backend server that is not strictly required.
We can store again any arbitrary information we want inside of a cookie, but you're going to see that
a lot of people out there, a lot of methodology says that cookie based authentication, you're going
to store some kind of session ID.
And so of course, that does infer or imply that you will have a backing data store on the server,
which again, we probably do not want to do.
Okay.
So again, JSON, web token, that's what we're going to use now that makes it sound really easy.
And hey, these are great reasons for that, but we're still not quite done here.
Remember one thing we looked at earlier, when we decide to use a JSON web token, that's not the end
of the story.
Jason Web tokens are just an authentication mechanism.
They're a piece of data that proves that someone is logged in and stores some information about the
user.
We still have to somehow communicate this information between our browser and our server.
We can do it either manually to a degree using these headers or sticking it into the body of a request.
Or alternatively, we can have the browser handle it for us, using still this kind of cookie based
idea.
Now remember, this is where there really is a difference between cookies, cookie based authentication
and Jason Web tokens.
In this case, we're saying that we're going to use a JSON Web token to store our auth information,
but the cookie is going to be the transport mechanism.
That's how we actually shove or move the cookie around between the browser and the server.
So we still have to decide how we are going to move this token around.
So let's do that in just a moment.